Add proposal about supporting git repo in Helm Broker (#5010)
kyma-project/kyma: components/helm-broker/docs/proposals/addon-git-support.md

# Support for loading Addons from Git repository

Created on 2019-07-24 by Mateusz Szostok ([@mszostok](https://github.com/mszostok)).

This document describes options for extending the ClusterAddonsConfiguration/AddonsConfiguration for supporting loading Addons from the Git repository.

## Motivation

> Helm Broker fetches addons listed in the `index.yaml` file from remote HTTPS servers. Only zipped bundles can be fetched. This solution generates problems for end-user as it's not easy to always have dedicated HTTPS server which serves zipped bundles. A most common scenario is to have a git repository with unzipped bundles and index YAMLs. This document describes possible and accepted solutions for achieving that goal.

Reviewer: Please mentioned at the end, that this syntax in addition opens a doors to other types of storage, like s3, mercurial etc.

> ## Accepted solution

Reviewer: Please mentioned at the end, that this syntax in addition opens a doors to other types of storage, like s3, mercurial etc.

Git repositories can be specified by prefixing the address with the special `git::` prefix. After this prefix, any valid Git URL can be specified to select one of the protocols supported by Git. Inspired by the [Terraform implementation](https://www.terraform.io/docs/modules/sources.html#github).

```yaml
apiVersion: addons.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterAddonsConfiguration
metadata:
  name: addons-cfg-sample
spec:
  repositories:
    # Use SSH protocol with path to index YAML

>     - url: "git::git@github.com:kyma-project/bundles.git//index.yaml"

Reviewer: I understand that https repositories, will have URLs as before? E.g. https://github.com/kyma-project/bundles/releases/download/0.6.0/index-testing.yaml

Author: exactly the https/http repos should be specified in the same way as previously. go-getter also supports that

proper example added

>     - url: "git::git@github.com:kyma-project/bundles.git//index.yaml"

Author: yes

- Support only for git hosting and not directly to all git repositories. We need to write our parser. 
  
  In documentation some disclaimer that other than GitHub, GitLab and BitBucket **MAY** not work.

</p>
</details>

### Solution 2: Extend API with `type`,`ref`,`url`,`indexPath` field

Git repositories can be specified by choosing `type: git` and providing rest information in dedicated fields.

```yaml
apiVersion: addons.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterAddonsConfiguration
metadata:
  name: addons-cfg-sample
spec:
  repositories:
    - type: git
      ref: master # branch/tag/commit
      url: git@github.com:kyma-project/bundles.git # all git protocol supported
      indexPath: bundles/bundles/index.yaml
``` 

<details><summary>Pros</summary>
<p>

- Support all git repositories
- API is self-describing

</p>
</details>

<details><summary>Cons</summary>
<p>

- Migration job needed
- Changes in UI and console-backend-service needed
- Link is not "clickable". In UI you are not able to click directly the link and go to a given repository.

</p>
</details>

## Support for authorization

Support for authorization is considered to be added in future. 

### Proposal

> User can specify the reference to secret where credentials are stored. In URL, user needs to specify query parameters with key-value pairs. As value set the name of the key from Secret which constrains token data. Helm Broker is reading ClusterAddonsConfiguration and render the url by replacing the **{KEY_NAME_FROM_SECRET_PLACEHOLDER}** with proper values extracted from secret referenced by the `authSecretRef` field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the future, we want to allow you to specify the reference to a Secret in which you store credentials. In URL, you must specify query parameters with key-value pairs. As a value, set the name of the key from a Secret which constrains token data. Helm Broker is reading ClusterAddonsConfiguration and renders the URL by replacing the **{KEY_NAME_FROM_SECRET_PLACEHOLDER}** with proper values extracted from Secret referenced by the **authSecretRef` field.
```

Reviewer 2: Let's discuss.

# Support fetching addons from Git repository

Created on 2019-07-24 by Mateusz Szostok ([@mszostok](https://github.com/mszostok)).

This document describes options to extend the ClusterAddonsConfiguration and AddonsConfiguration custom resources (CRs) so that they support fetching addons from any Git repository.

## Motivation

> Helm Broker fetches addons listed in the `index.yaml` file and exposed as remote HTTPS servers, which means that only zipped addons can be fetched. This solution generates problems for end-users, as it's not always easy to have a dedicated HTTPS server that serves zipped addons. The most common scenario is to have a Git repository with unzipped addons and index yaml files. This document describes all possible solutions for achieving that goal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Helm Broker fetches addons listed in the `index.yaml` file and exposed as remote HTTPS servers, which means that only zipped addons can be fetched. This solution generates problems for end-users, as it's not always easy to have a dedicated HTTPS server that serves zipped addons. The most common scenario is to have a Git repository with unzipped addons and index.yaml files. This document describes all possible solutions for achieving that goal.
```

## Accepted solution

> You can specify Git repositories by adding the special `git::` prefix to the URL address. After this prefix, you can provide any valid Git URL with one of the protocols supported by Git. This solution is inspired by the [Terraform implementation](https://www.terraform.io/docs/modules/sources.html#github). Using the [hashicorp go-getter](https://github.com/hashicorp/go-getter) allows us to easily add new supported protocols such as Mercurial, S3, GCS etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can specify Git repositories by adding the special `git::` prefix to the URL address. After this prefix, you can provide any valid Git URL with one of the protocols supported by Git. This solution is inspired by the [Terraform implementation](https://www.terraform.io/docs/modules/sources.html#github). Using the [hashicorp go-getter](https://github.com/hashicorp/go-getter) allows us to easily add new supported protocols, such as Mercurial, S3, GCS, etc.
```

```yaml
apiVersion: addons.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterAddonsConfiguration
metadata:
  name: addons-cfg-sample
spec:
  repositories:
    # Use Git SSH protocol with a path to index.yaml
    - url: "git::git@github.com:kyma-project/addons.git//index.yaml"
    # Use Git HTTPS protocol with a path to index.yaml 
    - url: "git::https://github.com/kyma-project/addons.git//addons/index.yaml"
    # Use Git HTTPS protocol with a path to index.yaml and branch/tag version 
    - url: "git::https://github.com/kyma-project/addons.git//addons/index.yaml?ref=1.2.0"
    # Use unprefixed github.com URLs. They are automatically interpreted as Git repository sources. 
    - url: "github.com/kyma-project/addons//addons/index.yaml?ref=1.2.0"

>     # Use HTTPS protocol (server which serves static content), should be defined as previously. Nothing changed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # Use HTTPS protocol (server which serves static content) defined the way it was implemented so far.
```

    - url: "https://github.com/kyma-project/addons/releases/download/latest/index.yaml"
``` 

<details><summary>Pros</summary>
<p>

- No UI and Console Backend Service changes
- No migration job needed 
- Support for all Git repositories
- The Git getter is already available in [hashicorp](https://github.com/hashicorp/go-getter#git-git). We only need to create a validator that checks if the file is provided (in hashicorp it is optional). 

>**NOTE:** This implementation uses the Git binary. It check-outs the full repository but depth can be specified.

</p>
</details>

<details><summary>Cons</summary>
<p>

> - User must know the new pattern, which is not obvious

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- User must know the new pattern, which is not obvious.
```

  repositories:
    - type: git
      url: https://github.com/kyma-project/addons/blob/master/addons/index-testing.yaml
``` 

<details><summary>Pros</summary>
<p>

- Link is clickable. You can click the link directly in UI and go to index.yaml in the repository.

</p>
</details>

<details><summary>Cons</summary>
<p>

- Migration job needed
- Changes in UI and Console Backend Service needed
- Support only for Git hosting and not directly to all Git repositories. We need to create our parser. We should also mention in the documentation that repositories other than GitHub, GitLab, and BitBucket may not work.
  

</p>
</details>

### Solution 2: Extend API with the **type**, **ref**, **url**, **indexPath** fields

Git repositories can be specified by choosing `type: git` and providing rest information in dedicated fields.

```yaml
apiVersion: addons.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterAddonsConfiguration
metadata:
  name: addons-cfg-sample
spec:
  repositories:
    - type: git
      ref: master # branch/tag/commit
      url: git@github.com:kyma-project/bundles.git # all git protocol supported
      indexPath: bundles/bundles/index.yaml
``` 

<details><summary>Pros</summary>
<p>

> - Support all git repositories

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Support all Git repositories
```

- API is self-describing

</p>
</details>

<details><summary>Cons</summary>
<p>

- Migration job needed

> - Changes in UI and console-backend-service needed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Changes in UI and Console Backend Service needed
```

> - Link is not "clickable". In UI you are not able to click directly the link and go to a given repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Link is not clickable. You cannot click the link directly in UI and go to a given repository.
```

</p>
</details>

## Future implementations

We consider adding support for authorization in the future. 

### Support for authorization

> In the future, we want to allow you to specify the reference to a Secret in which you store credentials. In URL, you must specify query parameters with key-value pairs. As a value, set the name of the key from a Secret which constrains token data. Helm Broker is reading ClusterAddonsConfiguration and renders the URL by replacing the **{KEY_NAME_FROM_SECRET_PLACEHOLDER}** with proper values extracted from Secret referenced by the **authSecretRef` field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the future, we want to allow you to specify the reference to a Secret in which you store credentials. In URL, you must specify query parameters with key-value pairs. As a value, set the name of the key from a Secret which contains token data. Helm Broker fetches ClusterAddonsConfigurations and renders URLs by replacing the **{KEY_NAME_FROM_SECRET_PLACEHOLDER}** with proper values extracted from Secrets referenced by the **authSecretRef** field.
```
